High-momentum stocks (i.e., those that did well in the past) have lower IVS
levels, but are associated with higher moneyness slopes, indicating that the cost of protection
against downside risk is larger for these firms. This supports the idea that there is a crash
risk component in momentum strategies (Daniel and Moskowitz, 2016)

these are followed by liquidity measures (such as bid-ask spread, market value and
Amihud illiquidity). Illiquid stocks and small stocks are associated with higher IVS levels,
being thus perceived as more volatile. Such a negative relation between size and volatility
is consistent with the model of firm networks from Herskovic et al. (2020). Also among
the most important characteristics are volatility variables (including idiosyncratic volatility,
market beta and return volatility). Naturally, stocks with high return volatility are perceived
as more volatile, with higher IVS levels. As for market beta, the CAPM stochastic volatility
model of Christoffersen et al. (2018) predicts that firms with higher betas should have a
higher level, a steeper moneyness slope and a steeper term structure of the IVS. We confirm
only the latter two predictions, which suggests that the relation between market betas and
IVS levels is affected by controlling for other characteristics

We then proceed to exploit the information in firm characteristics to price equity options.
The main challenge of dealing with equity options is their relative illiquidity. While there are
on average more than a thousand options on the S&P 500 index each day, the average number
of equity option observations per stock-day is only 21. This makes leading option pricing
techniques, which are option data intensive, unfeasible for the vast majority of individual
equities.4 Motivated by our previous results, we address this challenge by employing pooled
estimation of IVS features which groups stocks with similar characteristics together. The
clustering and the estimation are carried out simultaneously by means of local linear forests
(Athey et al., 2019; Friedberg et al., 2020), which extend the original idea of random forests
4For instance, Christoffersen et al. (2018) and Bakshi et al. (2021) restrict their sample to 30 and 50
firms with the most liquid cross-sections of options, respectively, to estimate stochastic volatility models.
3
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4342597
(Breiman, 2001) by fitting linear models inside the leaves of the decision trees instead of just
taking an average of the observations. The group structure of our IVS forest alleviates joint
signals across stocks while reducing estimation error

