STEPS FOR DATA PREPROCESSING
Almeida et al: 
1. Take midpoint of the end of day bid and ask quotes as the option prices and apply standard filter to the data. (More specifically, observations with zero volume, with price lower than 1/8 or violating the usual no arbitrage conditions are dropped)
2. The time to expiration of each option is calculated taking into account if the contract settlement is  at the open or close. (PM is usual, AM usual -1) WE HAVE THIS  TOO!!!
3. Since the S&P500 index typically pays a dividend, for each day and available time to maturity we estimate the dividend yield from the put-call parity relation using the pair of call and put options that are closest to at the money. (for the rare case this lacks, use dividend yield provided by optionmetrics)
4. As a proxy or the risk free rate, we download the 3-month treasure bill rate from St. Louis Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) database, while data for the index is obtained from Bloomberg

Focus on options with time to expiration between 20 and 240 calendar days and moneyness m=S/K between 0.80 and 1.60, where strike price intervals are 5 and 25 points. We follow the common practice of using only out of the money options, which are more liquid and reliable than their in the money counterparts. ITM money options can be discarded without any loss of information. 

We back out the implied volatilities by inverting the Black-Scholes formula. Group them in moneyness.

Freire, Kleen:

Data contains information about the entire U.S. equity option market and include end-of day bid and ask quotes, implied volatility, strike price, expiration date, and volume for each option. (IV of optionmetrics computed using binomial trees, properly take into account that equity options are American and their prices can be influenced by an early exercise premium).

Apply handful of standard filters to the raw data. Exclude options with zero volume, null bid or ask, zero bid, bid greater than ask, midpoint of bid and ask below 1/8 and null implied volatility. 

Source for stock price data is the CRSP. As for firm characteristics, we use those calculated and provided by Gu et al. Linking table used by WRDS Consider options across all maturities and within the broad range of moneyness between 0.5 and 2.0, where moneyness is defined as the ratio between stock price and strike (S/K).  

Kelly, Kutznetsov, et al: Deep learning from implied volatility surfaces

Options data are from optionsmetrics ivyDB. Contains interpolated option implied volatility surfaces for a large set of firms for each trading day from January 1996 to December 2021. For interpolation, a proprietary kernel smoothing algo is applied by optionmetrics across both moneyness, and expiry grids, allowing us to abstract from option cycles and varying strikes.

Moneyness grid goes from -1 to +1 in equidistant 0.05 steps, and expiry grid ranges from 10 to 730 days-to-maturity.  

Neural Tangent Kernel in implied volatility forecasting: A nonlinear functional autoregression approach

IvyDB optionmetrics, and also data on the closing value of the S&P500 index, dividend, forward prices, and yield curve of riskless interest rates for constructing the surface and further analysis. Moneyness from Andersen, fusari and Todorov (?) m = ln(K/Ft)/(sqrt(t)IVamt,t), F forward price for transaction tau years into the future, IV denotes annualized IV of the option. Proces a pre smoothing to transform the discrete observations on the same day into a daily continuous function. Specifically, employ a two dimensional B splines expansion. put-call parity? due to inconsistencies. therefore, call and put options are used separately. 